You asked me the other day why I said that I was afraid of you.
As usual, I didn’t know how to answer you, partly because of my fear of you, partly because there are too many particular reasons for that fear for me to be in any way able to put them all together in one talk.
And if I’m trying to answer you here in writing it’ll thus be very incomplete, because even in writing fear and its consequences hinder me in my dealings with you, and because the dimension of the subject far exceeds my memory and my understanding.
The matter has always seemed very simple to you, at least insofar as you’ve talked to me about it and, without any reserve, before many others.
It seemed to you to be something along these lines: you’ve worked hard all your life, you’ve sacrificed everything for your children, above all for me, and as a result, I’ve lived "up to the hilt", I had complete freedom to learn what I wanted to, I had no cause to worry about food, and moreover no worries at all; you didn’t expect gratitude for that, you know all about "the gratitude of children", but you expected at least some kind of agreeable behaviour, some sign of mutual understanding; instead of that I’ve always kept away from you, in my room, with books, with crazy friends, with extravagant ideas; I’ve never spoken openly with you, I didn’t come over to you in the temple, I never visited you in Franzensbad [2] nor did I ever have any other sense of family, I’ve never taken any interest in your business or your other affairs, I was a burden for you in the factory and then I left you, I’ve supported Ottla [3] in her obstinacy, and while I never lift a finger for you (I don’t even bring you theatre tickets!), I do everything for my friends.
If you summed up your opinion of me it turns out that you don’t reproach me for anything really indecent or evil (with the exception perhaps of my recent intention to marry), but of coldness, of distancing myself from you and of ingratitude.
And you reproach me with that as if it were my fault, as if I could have arranged everything differently by going in a different direction, whereas you aren’t the least bit to blame, other than that you were perhaps too good to me.
I consider your usual version of the situation to be correct only to the extent that I too think that you’re entirely blameless for our alienation.
But I’m equally as entirely blameless.
If I could get you to acknowledge that, then – not that a new life would be possible, we’re both much too old for that, but a kind of peace, not a cessation but a softening of your incessant reproaches.
Strangely enough you have some idea of what I want to say.
For example, you recently told me: "I’ve always liked you, even if I haven’t outwardly been like other fathers tend to be, just because I can’t pretend like others can.”
Now, Father, on the whole I’ve never doubted your kindness towards me, but I consider that remark to be incorrect.
You can’t pretend to be what you aren’t, that’s true, but to say for that reason alone that other fathers are pretending is either mere arrogance that can’t be discussed any further, or else is — and in my opinion it really is — the veiled expression of the fact that something’s really wrong between us and that you’ve helped to cause it, but without being guilty of it.
If you really mean that, then we’re in agreement.
Of course, I’m not saying that I’ve become what I am only because of your influence.
That would be a great exaggeration (although I’m even inclined to believe it).
It’s very possible that even if I’d grown up completely free of your influence I couldn’t have become a person after your own heart.
I would probably have become a weak, anxious, hesitant, restless person, neither Robert Kafka [4] nor Karl Hermann [5], but quite different from what I really am, and we could have gotten along splendidly.
I would have been happy to have you as a friend, as a boss, as an uncle, as a grandfather, even (albeit more hesitantly) as a father in law.
But just as a father you were too strong for me, especially since my brothers died young [6] and my sisters came long after me, so I had to bear the first blow all by myself, and I was much too weak for that.
Compare the two of us: I’m, to put it very briefly, a Löwy [7] with a certain Kafka foundation, that, however, isn’t set set in motion by the Kafka will to live, to do business and to conquer, but by a lion-like incentive that works more secretly, more shyly, in a different direction and often stops altogether.
You on the other hand are a real Kafka in strength, health, appetite, power of voice, gift of speech, self-satisfaction, worldly superiority, endurance, presence of mind, knowledge of human nature and a certain generosity, naturally also with all the faults and weaknesses belonging to those virtues that your temperament and sometimes your quick temper drive you to.
Perhaps you aren’t quite Kafka in your general view of the world, as far as I can compare you with my uncles Philipp, Ludwig and Heinrich.
Tt’s strange that I don’t see things quite clearly here either.
They were all more cheerful, fresher, more informal, more easy-going and less strict than you (in that, by the way, I’ve inherited a lot from you and managed the inheritance far too well, without however having the necessary counterweights in my nature as you have them).
In that respect you’ve also gone through different periods, you were perhaps happier before your children, especially me, disappointed you and made your life difficult at home (when strangers came to visit, you were different) and have perhaps become happier again now that the grandchildren and the son-in-law are again giving you something of that warmth that your children, with the exception of Valli perhaps, couldn’t give you.
In any case we were so different and in that difference so dangerous to each other that if one had wanted to calculate in advance how I, the slowly developing child, and you, the developed man, would relate to each other, one could have supposed that you would simply run roughshod over me, that nothing of me would remain.
That didn’t happen, the nature of living people can’t be so simply calculated, although perhaps something worse happened.
But I must ask you not to forget that I’ve never in any way believed in any guilt on your part.
You had the effect on me that you had to have – but you must stop thinking it a special malice on my part that I succumbed to it.
I was a timid child; nevertheless I was certainly also stubborn, as children are; my mother certainly spoiled me, but I can’t believe that I was particularly difficult to bring up, I can’t believe that a kind word, a calm taking me by the hand, a benevolent glance couldn’t have obtained everything from me that was wanted.
You’re now basically a kind and soft person (what follows won’t contradict that, I’m only talking about the way you appeared to be that had an effect on the child I was), but not every child has the perseverance and the force to keep searching until he discovers benevolence.
You can only treat a child the way that you’re made yourself, with strength, clamour and irascibility, and in my case that also seemed to you to be very suitable because you wanted to raise me to be a strong, courageous boy.
Of course I can’t directly describe your way of educating me in the very first years, but I can imagine it by drawing conclusions from later years and from your treatment of Felix [8].
In that context it’s important to keep in mind that you were younger then and therefore fresher, wilder, more original, even more carefree than you are today and that you were also completely tied up in your business – you could scarcely see me once a day and thereby made an impression on me that was all the more profound, and that I can hardly ever become accustomed to.
I only specifically remember one incident from my first years.
You may remember it too.
Once I kept whimpering for water in the night, certainly not from thirst but probably partly to annoy you and partly to entertain myself.
After a few strong threats that didn’t help, you picked me up from my bed, carried me out to the back courtyard and left me standing there alone for a while in my nightshirt in front of the closed door.
I don’t want to say that that was wrong, perhaps there really was no other way to get a good night’s sleep at that time, but with that I want to characterise your way of educating me and its effect on me.
I was very obedient after that, but I suffered innerly from it.
Because of my nature I could never establish the connection between having asked for water without any good reason, that seemed perfectly natural to me, and the extraordinarily terrible punishment that ensued.
Even years later I suffered from the tormenting idea that the huge man, my father, could in the last resort come along almost without reason and carry me out of bed into the courtyard in the night and that thus I was nothing for him.
That was only a small beginning then, but the feeling of nothingness that often dominates me (a noble and fruitful feeling in other respects, however) stems in many ways from your influence.
I would have needed a little encouragement, a little kindness, a little leeway in choosing my path forward, but instead you blocked it for me with of course the good intention that I should go in another direction.
But I was no good for that.
You encouraged me for example when I saluted and marched well, but I wasn’t a future soldier, or you encouraged me when I ate heartily or even could drink beer with my meal, or when I could repeat incomprehensible songs of yours or babble your favourite sayings, but none of that had anything to do with my future.
And it’s significant that even today you only actually cheer me up in matters where you yourself are concerned, when it’s your self-esteem that I’m affecting (for example, by my intention to marry [9]) or my own that’s hurt (for example, when Pepa [10] insults me).
Then I’m cheered up and reminded of my value, of what that I’m capable of doing, and Pepa is completely condemned.
But apart from the fact that at my age I’m already practically insensitive to encouragements, what good is it to me if it only comes when it’s about matters that aren’t primarily about me?
