My God, I'm so lonely, so I open the window
I really love Mitski songs, they are really cool, meaningFull and DEPRESSED, So they! represents my :mood:
Nobody, nobody, nobody, nobody, nobody-Ooh, nobody, nobody, nobody
And I know no one will save me, I'm just asking for a kiss.
And you're an all-American boy, I guess I couldn't help trying to be.
Your best American girl!
Your mother WOULDN'T approve OF how my mother raised me
And then one warm summer night, I'll hear fireworks outside!
And I'll listen to the memories as they cry, cry, cry...
I know who you pretend I am - I know who you pretend I am...
But do-mi-ti, Why not me, Why not me?
I know they are losing, and I'll pay for my place by the ring.
Where I'll be looking in their eyes when they are down!
I'll be there on their side!
I'm losing by their side.
I bet on losing dogs
I always want you when I'm finally fine
How you'd be over me
'Cause my love is mine, all mine ...
My love mine, mine, mine...
Nothing in the world belongs to me!
But my love, mine, all mine, all mine 3
So please, hurry, leave me, I can't breathe.
Please don't say you love me!
And I was so young when I behaved 25.
Yet now, I find I've grown into a tall child.
And I don't wanna go home!
Let me walk to the top of the big night sky.
One word from you and I would Jump off of this ledge I'm on, baby!
Tell me "don't, " so I can crawl back in.
Mom, would you wash my back?
This once, and then we can forget!
And I'll leave what I'm chasing...
For the other girls to pursue.
Mom, am I still young?
Can I dream for a few months more?
On sunny days, I go out walking.
I end up on a tree-lined street.
I look up at the gaps of sunlight.
I miss you more than anything.
And autumn comes when you're not yet done.
With the summer passing by, but...
I don't think I could stand to be.
Where you don't see me!
But it's just that I fell in love with a war.
And nobody told me it ended!
And it left a pearl in my head!
And I roll it around every night.
Just to watch it glow.
Every night, baby, that's where I go.
Just to watch it glow.
