Have a crewmate to protect, 'cause.
They want us all divided.
That is how they keep us down!
We got the guts!
We got the chutzpah!
We got the means to seize the crown!
If you're not fuckin' stupid, then you've only got one choice:
Me, Vox Populi, the People's voice.
Try to picture if we could escape this hole.
Never have to live in fear of days that angels may appear, 'cause
Here's the kicker, sinners can save their souls.
Not by changing for redemption, but by taking over Heaven.
They say Hell's too populated, that's why they exterminate.
We got the numbers, we got the thunder.
Let's annex their real estate!
If you wanna see a new world, raise your fist and make some noise:
Hail Vox Populi, the People's voice!
Let's unite and fight for a brand new realm.
We'll direct our destinies as one nation under Vees.
'Cause, happy days are nigh with Vox at the helm.
Future's never tasted sweeter.
Thanks to our charming leader!
Every sinner can be a winner.
Let's take our fates to the Pearly Gates!
We can have the keys if we trust the Vees.
Give applause, Hell has cause to rejoice!
'Cause I'm the furor, I'm immense.
I am the avatar of your consequence.
I'm your omega, I'm the flood.
I am the nightmare you made when you spilled our blood.
When I was young, I didn't really know you at all.
I always felt so small.
But I hеard your stories and I was enthralled...
Thе tales about your lofty dreams, I'd listen breathlessly.
Imagining it could be me!
So in the end, it's the view I had of you.
That showed me dreams can be worth fighting for.
More than anything, more than anything...
I need to save my people more than anything.
You think you're Hell’s great savior?
Will you still when I return the favor?
Take the one you need, make you watch ’em bleed.
Will you break thinkin' how you couldn’t save her?
Wishin' you were there when they needed you.
The only soul who's ever completed you.
Maybe then, you'll get a little heated too.
And understand why this is what I need to do.
Why don't you help them, you double-dealing manipulator?
What's in it for me? I don't work for free
You want help, well, you know the fee
I will not reward a snake like you.
You'll watch them die unless you do
Liar, you wouldn't dare!
Quid pro quo, it's only fair.
You really are a demon, pet!
You knew my game the day we met.
And a big thank you to my producers for giving me this chance.
I know I have some mighty big shoes to fill.
But I promise, you can trust me With your entertainment.
The other studios wanna feed you the same old crap everyone's seen before.
You want newer, you want bigger, you want brighter!
I will be your voice, and we will redefine what it means to rule the airwaves.
Trust me, and your future will be brighter.
Now who's ready to be baptized into a new era of entertainment?
Finally, I'll show them what I'm meant to be.
They won't believe their eyes when I bring them to their knees to worship me!
This place reeks of death, there's a chill in the air.
And I barely escaped being killed by a hair.
"Great Alastor, altruist, died for his friends"?
Sorry to disappoint, that is not where this ends!
I'm hungry for freedom like never before.
The constraints of my deal surely have a backdoor.
Once I figure out how to unclip my wings.
Guess who will be pulling all the strings?
