At first, however, I was convinced that Horiki was a nice fellow, an unusually nice fellow, and despite my habitual dread of human beings I relaxed my guard to the extent of thinking that I had found a fine guide to Tokyo.
To tell the truth, when I first came to the city, I was afraid to board a streetcar because of the conductor.
I was afraid to enter the Kabuki Theatre for fear of the usherettes standing along the sides of the red-carpeted staircase at the main entrance.
I was afraid to go into a restaurant because I was intimidated by the waiters furtively hovering behind me waiting for my plate to be emptied.
Most of all I dreaded paying a bill—my awkwardness when I handed over the money after buying something did not arise from any stinginess, but from excessive tension, excessive embarrassment, excessive uneasiness and apprehension.
My eyes would swim in my head, and the whole world grow dark before me, so that I felt half out of my mind.
There was no question of bargaining—not only did I often forget to pick up my change, but I quite frequently forgot to take home the things I had purchased.
It was quite impossible for me to make my way around Tokyo by myself.
I had no choice but to spend whole days at a time lolling about the house.
So I turned my money over to Horiki and the two of us went out together.
He was a great bargainer and—this perhaps earned him the ranking of expert in pleasure-seeking—he displayed unusual proficiency in spending minimal sums of money with maximum effect.
His talents extended to getting wherever he wanted in the shortest possible time without ever having recourse to taxis: he used by turns, as seemed appropriate, the streetcar, the bus and even steam launches in the river.
He gave me a practical education: thus, if we stopped in the morning at a certain restaurant on our way home from a prostitute’s and had a bath with our meal, it was a cheap way of experiencing the sensation of living luxuriously.
He also explained that beef with rice or skewered chicken—the sort of dishes you can get at a roadside stand—are cheap but nourishing.
He guaranteed that nothing got you drunker quicker than brandy.
At any rate, as far as the bill was concerned he never caused me to feel the least anxiety or fear.
Another thing which saved me when with Horiki was that he was completely uninterested in what his listener might be thinking, and could pour forth a continuous stream of nonsensical chatter twenty-four hours a day, in whichever direction the eruption of his “passions” led him.
(It may have been that his passions consisted in ignoring the feelings of his listener.)
His loquacity ensured that there would be absolutely no danger of our falling into uncomfortable silences when our pleasures had fatigued us.
In dealings with other people I had always been on my guard lest those frightful silences occur, but since I was naturally slow of speech, I could only stave them off by a desperate recourse to clowning.
Now, however, that stupid Horiki (quite without realizing it) was playing the part of the clown, and I was under no obligation to make appropriate answers.
It sufficed if I merely let the stream of his words flow through my ears and, once in a while, commented with a smile, “Not really!”
I soon came to understand that drink, tobacco and prostitutes were all excellent means of dissipating (even for a few moments) my dread of human beings.
I came even to feel that if I had to sell every last possession to obtain these means of escape, it would be well worth it.
I never could think of prostitutes as human beings or even as women.
They seemed more like imbeciles or lunatics.
But in their arms I felt absolute security.
I could sleep soundly.
It was pathetic how utterly devoid of greed they really were.
And perhaps because they felt for me something like an affinity for their kind, these prostitutes always showed me a natural friendliness which never became oppressive.
Friendliness with no ulterior motive, friendliness stripped of high-pressure salesmanship, for someone who might never come again.
Some nights I saw these imbecile, lunatic prostitutes with the halo of Mary.
I went to them to escape from my dread of human beings, to seek a mere night of repose, but in the process of diverting myself with these “kindred” prostitutes, I seem to have acquired before I was aware of it a certain offensive atmosphere which clung inseparably to me.
This was a quite unexpected by-product of my experience, but gradually it became more manifest, until Horiki pointed it out, to my amazement and consternation.
I had, quite objectively speaking, passed through an apprenticeship in women at the hands of prostitutes, and I had of late become quite adept.
The severest apprenticeship in women, they say, is with prostitutes, and that makes it the most effective.
The odor of the “lady-killer” had come to permeate me, and women (not only prostitutes) instinctively detected it and flocked to me.
This obscene and inglorious atmosphere was the “bonus” I received, and it was apparently far more noticeable than the recuperative effects of my apprenticeship.
Horiki informed me of it half as a compliment, I suppose, but it struck a painful chord in me.
With all of them I had been extremely negative and the stories had gone no further, remaining undeveloped fragments.
But it was an undeniable fact, and not just some foolish delusion on my part, that there lingered about me an atmosphere which could send women into sentimental reveries.
It caused me a bitterness akin to shame to have this pointed out by someone like Horiki; at the same time I suddenly lost all interest in prostitutes.
To show off his “modernity” (I can’t think of any other reason) Horiki also took me one day to a secret Communist meeting.
(I don’t remember exactly what it was called—a “Reading Society,” I think.)
A secret Communist meeting may have been for Horiki just one more of the sights of Tokyo.
I was introduced to the “comrades” and obliged to buy a pamphlet.
I then heard a lecture on Marxian economics delivered by an extraordinarily ugly young man, the guest of honor.
Everything he said seemed exceedingly obvious, and undoubtedly true, but I felt sure that something more obscure, more frightening lurked in the hearts of human beings.
Greed did not cover it, nor did vanity.
Nor was it simply a combination of lust and greed.
I wasn’t sure what it was, but I felt that there was something inexplicable at the bottom of human society which was not reducible to economics.
Terrified as I was by this weird element, I assented to materialism as naturally as water finding its own level.
But materialism could not free me from my dread of human beings; I could not feel the joy of hope a man experiences when he opens his eyes on young leaves.
Nevertheless I regularly attended the meetings of the Reading Society.
I found it uproariously amusing to see my “comrades,” their faces tense as though they were discussing matters of life and death, absorbed in the study of theories so elementary they were on the order of “one and one makes two.”
I tried to take some of the strain out of the meetings with my usual antics.
That was why, I imagine, the oppressive atmosphere of the group gradually relaxed.
I came to be so popular that I was considered indispensable at the meetings.
These simple people perhaps fancied that I was just as simple as they—an optimistic, laughter loving comrade—but if such was their view, I was deceiving them completely.
I was not their comrade.
Yet I attended every single meeting and performed for them my full repertory of farce.
I did it because I liked to, because those people pleased me—and not necessarily because we were linked by any common affection derived from Marx.
Irrationality.
I found the thought faintly pleasurable.
Or rather, I felt at ease with it.
What frightened me was the logic of the world; in it lay the foretaste of something incalculably powerful.
Its mechanism was incomprehensible, and I could not possibly remain closeted in that windowless, bone-chilling room.
Though outside lay the sea of irrationality, it was far more agreeable to swim in its waters until presently I drowned.
People talk of “social outcasts.”
The words apparently denote the miserable losers of the world, the vicious ones, but I feel as though I have been a “social outcast” from the moment I was born.
If ever I meet someone society has designated as an outcast, I invariably feel affection for him, an emotion which carries me away in melting tenderness.
